# Prediction-of-IMDB-Rating-using-Machine-Learning (IN PROGRESS)

## Research question and problem framing
Every year, thousands of movies are produced in the film industry. It is a multi-billion dollar industry where a tremendous amount of investment and funding is involved with each project yet so few of them achieve the commercial success. There are many factors that influence the success of a film, ranging from the cast to the popularity of the director. Considering this, it is a bit of gamble for the movie to be produced in the first place. With so much at stake, we would benefit a great deal from studying and analyzing the datasets that are available to us today. These datasets are accessible through major platforms such as Internet Movie Database (IMDB), Rotten Tomatoes, and Metacritic and contain details about the movie, ranging from the budget of a movie to the number of likes of the director. The analysis of such datasets would prove which factors are more important than others and how these factors influence the ratings of the movies. The findings of this study may be useful to the stakeholders whose decisions can greatly influence how their movie will turn out.

## Dataset
The dataset used in this study was obtained from Kaggle and contains information about 5,043 movies. The following features summarize the dataset that was analyzed in this study. In building algorithms, certain features were removed as they were either irrelevant or not helpful in improving the accuracy of the models. Columns with a high number of null values had to be re-evaluated based on how important they were in our analysis. Moreover, columns “Facebook likes” of actor 1, actor 2, actor 3 had to be removed because not all actors have a Facebook fan page. Further, all features that were part of the algorithms had to be converted to numeric in order to make the analysis easier.

## Research Methodology
The analysis of the dataset will be performed using Python. The first steps before the analysis will revolve around cleaning the dataset. The dataset will be checked for 0 and NaN values. Once this is done, all the columns that will be used as features in the models will be converted to numerical values such as integers or floats. The algorithms that will be used on the dataset are linear regression, and classification models including Random Forest and Decision Tree.

## Conclusion
Through manipulating and visualizing the dataset we were able to learn which variables are strongly correlated with the movie rating. The correlation results were consistent with the general assumptions people have with regards to the movie industry. For example, a movie that performed well in terms of ticket sales had a higher rating on IMDB. However, this does not necessarily reflect the artistic merit or value of the movie as it only indicates its popularity with the voters of IMDB. The outcomes that we’ve seen can be helpful to those making important decisions with regards to a film being made, whether the beneficiary would be either the director, actors, or the investor funding the film making. As we’ve learned in our analysis, social media proved to be a powerful predictor of the movie’s rating, as seen in the correlation of the number of Facebook likes on a director’s fan page and the movie’s rating. This leads to the possibility that using data from other social media platforms such as Instagram, twitter, or YouTube would help improve the accuracy of the models and provide more depth to our analysis.
